# Bridge API

As explained in the introduction section of this documentation, Zapp-pipes bundles are evaluated inside a JS bridge which provides specific features to the Zapp-pipes bundles. For simplicity's sake, the bridge features are wrapped in a JavaScript toolbelt object which is injected in each provider's handler function.

The `nativeBridge` object provides the following methods:
* `log(...msg<[Any]>)`: logs a message. You can also use the browser's `console` object, and the `log`, `warn` and `error` methods 
* `throwError(reason<String>)`: will return a 500 response, with an `Error` object initialized with the `reason` message
* `sendResponse(response<Object>, code<Number> = 200)`: will return a response to the router with the given HTTP code (the default is 200)
* `appData() -> <Object>`: a function which returns data from the native app. It returns an object with the following properties:
  * `uuid`: device uuid
  * `accountId`: Zapp account Id
  * `broadcasterId`: Applicaster broadcaster Id
  * `bundleIdentifier`: bundle identifier of the app
  * `platform`: *android* or *ios*
  * `apiSecretKey`: API private key
  * `languageLocale`: language locale as configured in the device
  * `countryLocale`: country locale as configured in the device
  * `advertisingIdentifier`: this returns the *idfa* for iOS and the *aaid* for Android (if advertising is disabled this field is empty)
  * `deviceType`: *phone* or *tablet*
  * `deviceWidth`: width of the device
  * `deviceHeight`: height of the device
  * `ver`: version number of the app (Android only)
  * `os_type`: operating system of the app. The value is always `android` (Android only)
  * `pluginConfigurations`: object with the plugin configurations (Android only)
  * `broadcasterExtensions`: extensions object for the Applicaster broadcaster (iOS only)

* `fetch(url<String>[, options<Object>]) -> <Promise: Any>`: allows the provider to perform HTTP get requests through the bridge. The `options` object is optional. It allows to define headers and other options. Returns a promise with the body of the response. It  responds automatically with the `throwError` method if an exception is caught when making the request. Errors are thrown for all responses with status codes `4XX` or `5XX`
* `postData(url<String>, body<Any>[, options<Object>]) -> <Promise: Any>`: allows the provider to send data through a post request. Returns a promise with the body or the server response

The `fetch` and `postData` methods use the [axios](https://github.com/mzabriskie/axios/) library. See axios documentation for details about the options object. 
