# How to publish a provider in Zapp

In order to use a data source provider in Zapp, it needs to be published to the Zapp platform. This will make the provider available for selection when users are setting up their app.

## Get a Zapp Token

Like many other procedures, you will need a zapp token for publishing a provider in Zapp. If this isn't done yet, you will need to create a `ZAPP_TOKEN` environment variable with a valid zapp token.
* Go to your [applicaster account settings](https://accounts.applicaster.com/admin/users). Find your username and click the info button in front of your username
* Scroll down to the bottom of the page, to the `Access Tokens` section
* Click the `+ Add` button. Give a name to your token, and click on the `Create access token button`
* Click on the info button in the actions column of the newly created token. Select and copy the token
* Open your terminal to add the token as an environment variable
  * using standard bash : `echo 'export ZAPP_TOKEN=<paste_your_token_here>' >> ~/.bash_profile`
  * using zshrc : `echo 'export ZAPP_TOKEN=<paste_your_token_here>' >> ~/.zshrc`
* run `source ~/.bash_profile` or `source ~/.zshrc` in your terminal to update your environment variables.
* run `echo $ZAPP_TOKEN` in your terminal to make sure the token is properly set in your environment variables

## Publishing for the first time

Now that your provider is ready to be used in any Zapp app, you need to create a plugin manifest, and upload it to the Zapp platform. This process is done with the zappifest tool, which you can install with homebrew : `brew install zappifest`.

Start by running `zappifest init`. The zappifest tool will guide you through the required steps to create your plugin manifest.
important notes : 
* when requested the type of plugin, select `Data Source Provider`
* the `Package name` should match exactly the name of the npm package
* the `Package version` should match exactly the latest version of the npm package - don't use wildcards here, only fixed version

Once you have filled all the required fields, the zappifest tool will create a `plugin-manifest.json` file which contains your manifest.
From there, all you need to do is to publish the manifest, with the zappifest tool : 
`zappifest publish --manifest path/to/plugin-manifest.json --access-token $ZAPP_TOKEN`

Voila ! Your provider is published in zapp, and ready to be used in our apps

## Updating a plugin 

If you need to update the plugin (for instance, to update the npm package version), visit https://zapp.applicaster.com/admin/plugins, and find your provider. You can see its id, and the manifest.
From there, download the manifest, and update the values that needs updating. Once this is done, simply invoke the zappifest tool publish command with the `-`plugin-id` argument.
`zappifest publish --manifest path/to/updated/manifest.json --plugin-id <plugin_id> --access-token $ZAPP_TOKEN`

After entering this command, the zappifest tool will show you a diff view of the updated manifest. If you are happy with the changes, simply confirm, and your plugin will be updated. Otherwise, you can cancel the update and go back to editing your manifest.

