# Examples

In this section, we will create a provider from scratch, and develop each step to illustrate comprehensively how to create a new provider

We're assuming here that the provider is name `custom-provider`, and that there is a back end capable of returning the content to populate the three screens of the app : home / all videos / news.

The code snippets above only use node 6.9.1 valid syntax, so no babel.js configuration is required.

## Scaffolding the project
The first step is to prepare the project. To do this, you can either start from the provided starter kit, or follow these steps : 
1. create a folder called `zapp-pipes-provider-custom-provider`
2. in this folder, create a new npm package by running the following command
`npm init --scope=applicaster`. Make sure the package name is `@applicaster/zapp-pipes-provider-custom-provider` and the entry point is `index.js`
3. Create a `src` folder, and an `index.js` file at the root of your project, where the `package.json` file is located.
4. In the index.js file, add the following : 

```javascript

const provider = require('./src');
module.exports = provider;

```

5. in the `src` folder, create an `index.js` file. This is where the provider code will be. add the following code :

```javascript

const provider = {
  name: 'custom-provider'
};

/* we will add the rest of the provider code here */

```

## Identification of the feeds
Now that your project folder is ready, the next step consist in identifying the feeds the provider needs to return, and how to retrieve them. In this example, there are 3 feeds to return : for the home screen, the 'all videos' screen, and the 'news' feed.

Let's define a `type` parameter, which will be equal to `feed`, and a `feedName` parameter to identify those feeds. This will give you the following feeds urls : 
* home screen => `custom-provider://fetchData?type=feed&feedName=home`
* all videos => `custom-provider://fetchData?type=feed&feedName=allVideos`
* news => `custom-provider://fetchData?type=feed&feedName=news`

You can now start to write the provider manifest : 

```javascript
// in src/index.js

provider.manifest = {
  handlers: ['feed'],
  help: {
    feed: {
      description: 'retrieves a feed',
      params: {
        feedName: 'name of the feed you want to retrieve',
      }
    }
  }
};

```

This manifest declares that the providers knows how to handle feed urls with `?type=feed`, and explains what are the parameters required for this type of urls.

You can then start to write the handler function. As explained in [the provider structure documentation](/Zapp-pipes/2.-Provider-structure.md), the handler function of the provider is a curried function, which gets injected with the [`nativeBridge`](3.-Native-bridge-API.md), and the query parameters of the requested feed url. You can use these parameters, and the nativeBridge features to process the url requested by the app :

```javascript
provider.handler = nativeBridge => params => {
  const { type, feedName } = params; 
  // will be populated with the content of ?type=xx&feedName=yy in the url called

  if (type !== 'feed') {
    return nativeBridge.throwError(`Don't know how to process request of type ${ type}`);
  }

  // ...

};
```

Note that the above is not necessary. If a url with a type that is not listed in the provider's manifest is called, the bundle will automatically return an error. Feel free to declare different type of requests that needs to be handled differently, to support various cases.

Now, depending on the `feedName`, you need to fetch the required data, format it, and return it in the bridge. Let's imagine here you have a back end with a simple endpoint that takes the feedName as parameter. You can use the nativeBridge `fetch` request to do that : 


```javascript
// index.js
provider.handler = nativeBridge => params => {
  const { type, feedName } = params;

  if (type !== 'feed') {
    return nativeBridge.throwError(`Don't know how to process request of type ${ type}`);
  }

  return nativeBridge.fetch(`https://myapi.com/feedName/${feedName}`)
    .catch(error => nativeBridge.throwError('something wrong happened !'))
    .then(feed => nativeBridge.sendResponse(feed));

};
```

With the code above, your provider will return the corresponding feed to the app. But it is likely that your feed format is slightly different from the one expected by the app, which is documented [here](/Zapp-pipes/5.Feed-API.md). So the last thing you need to do is to format the feed as expected by our specifications. Create a `formatFeed.js` file in the src folder, and export a function that will parse and format your feed : 

```javascript
// formatFeed.js

function formatFeed(inputFeed) {
  // transform feed appropriately

  return outputFeed;
}

module.exports = formatFeed;

```

Now you can import this at the top of the index.js file
```javascript
//index.js file

const formatFeed = require('./formatFeed');

```

You can now use this function to finalize your provider handler :


```javascript
// index.js
provider.handler = nativeBridge => params => {
  const { type, feedName } = params;

  if (type !== 'feed') {
    return nativeBridge.throwError(`Don't know how to process request of type ${ type}`);
  }

  return nativeBridge.fetch(`https://myapi.com/feedName/${feedName}`)
    .catch(error => nativeBridge.throwError('something wrong happened !'))
    .then(feed => formatFeed(feed))
    .then(feed => nativeBridge.sendResponse(feed));

};
```

There is one last bit to add to finalize your provider : you need to add the information to run integration tests. Let's define a `feedName` of type test. We will add its url in the test property of the provider, and mock the request to the back end.

```javascript

provider.test = {
  testCommand: 'custom-provider://fetchData?type=feed&feedName=test',
  requestMocks: [{
    host: 'http://myapi.com',
    method: 'get',
    path: '/feedName/test',
    expectedResponse: // put here the expected raw response from calling http://myapi.com/feedName/test
  }],
};

```

that's it ! now you can export your provider : 

```javascript
// index.js

module.exports = provider;
```

and publish your package by running `npm publish`

your provider is ready to be used !

