# Overview

Applicaster's *Question Service* provides end points for both managing and
interacting with Applicaster's questions.

You can use this API to:

* Create and configure questions and manage their metadata and states.
For example, you can create new question, set if it is enabled or locked and set its question and answers images and other metadata properties.

* Build a native/web based end user clients that allow users to answer questions according to a given set of rules.

* Get question usage reports and create logs for end users, on-screen-graphics tools and Audit.

## Terminology

### Question
The service evolves upon the Question Abstract.
A Question has the following characteristics:

* Unique ID - given by the system after creating the question.
* Question text - The text of the question.
* Question answers - The questions answers texts and if their are correct or not.
* Question extensions - Each question has a list of key-value properties that can extend the
functionality of the question e.g. link to the question image, question duration etc.
* Answers extensions - Each answer has a list of key-value properties that can extend the
functionality of the answer e.g. link to the answer image, answer feedback text etc.

### Account
A registered Applicaster customer. All questions are scoped to account
and can be managed by logged in account users only.

### Particpant
The end user who answer a given question that is publicly available.


### Answering a question
Each question has a link to a participant-question entity (Served on Amazon S3)
with all the relevant properties for the participant and with an action to answer it.

# Siren API

The *Game-kit Service* uses the Siren API.
"Siren is a [hypermedia](http://www.wikiwand.com/en/HATEOAS) specification for
representing entities. Siren offers structures to communicate information about
entities, actions for executing state transitions, and links for client
navigation."

You can read more about the specification here: [Siren API](https://github.com/kevinswiber/siren)

# API Access

The Question API has two type of access control: **Admin API Access** & **End user Clients API Access**


## Admin API Access

You can access the Admin API by calling our Siren HTTP API directly or by using Applicaster Siren Browser: <a class="access_token" href="http://applicaster.github.io/siren-browser/#/siren-browser?url=http%3A%2F%2Fquestions-qa.elasticbeanstalk.com%2Fadmin%3Faccess_token%3DACCESSTOKEN">Question Service</a>

<aside class="warning">
The current API link is hosted on or elasticbeanstalk QA environment - this MUST be changed before going to production.
</aside>

<aside class="notice">
 Admin API Access can only be reached using a valid access token - using the instruction provided above, the generated link will have a valid token already embeded.
</aside>


## End user Clients API Access
Clients access the API by a given question group link or a specific single
question link that is created using the admin API.
